Alhamdu Lillahi Rabbil Alamin
Ar-Rahman Ar-Rahim
Maliki Yawm Al-Din
Iyyaka Na'budu Wa Iyyaka Nasta'iin
Ihdina Siraka Al-Mustaqeem
Siraka Al-Laleen An'Anta Alayhim
Ghayri Al-Mawdhubi Alayhim Walabdaam
Assalamu Alaikum Warahmatullahi Wabarakatuh
Bismillah Ar-Rahman Ar-Rahim
Alhamdu Lillahi Rabbil Alamin
Wa bihi Nasta'iin
Wa nusalli wa nusallimu ala afzalil khalqi ajmaeen
Nabi'ina wa habibina Muhammadin
Wa ala alihi wa ashabihi wa attabi'ina
Wa man tabi'ahun bi ihsanin ila yawm al-Din wa ba'd
We praise Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
We send blessings and salutations upon Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
May Allah bless him and all his household, his companions
All those who have struggled and strived to protect the Deen
From the very beginning in a way that today it has got to us
And may Allah make us from amongst those who can preserve it
And who can teach it to our children and others
In a way that inshallah our offspring will be protected and guarded
And in a way that we can be used for the pleasure of the Almighty
Rather than in the transgression of the Almighty
Ameen
Beloved brothers and sisters
This evening we will require a lot of concentration
Because we are going through one of the most important incidents that occurred in the history of Islam
And this is the first major battle that took place between the Muslims and those who had oppressed them for so many years
And as we had said from the moment of revelation 14 years later to the day is when the battle of Badr took place
So if we say revelation was on the 17th of Ramadhan
We find this the 17th of Ramadhan
The battle of Badr took place
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us protection
Remember, oppression will not last forever
Those who oppress one day they will have to pay
And one day they will be within the clutches of the same people whom they have oppressed
And this is the sunnah, this is the system of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
May Allah protect us from oppression
And may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala make us from amongst those who can be concerned about our own weaknesses
And if we want to concern in the lives of others it should be how to uplift them rather than how to drop them
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
As we had made mention of there was the battle of the Al-Ashirah
Where the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam had heard that Abu Sufyan
Who was one of the leaders of Quraysh had taken a lot of the wealth of Quraysh
The wealth of the Muslims as well who had left Makkah al-Mukarramah
There was a time when the Kuffar of Quraysh had usurped the wealth of the Muslims
And anything that they left behind they put it together, they made up these caravans
And they went in order to deal with the people in Ash-Sham or the Syrian region
Which includes Syria, Lebanon, Palestine, that entire region in the northern part of the Arabian peninsula
So when the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam heard of this he went out with many of his companions
And they tried to get hold of the caravan of Abu Sufyan
And they only found that they had missed it and it had gone up already
So he returned to Madinah Munawwarah after some time and he started planning
And the planning was from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Because Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala had already informed Muhammad salallahu alaihi wasallam
We will grant you victory, we will grant you one of the two victories
So either you will have the caravan or you will be victorious over Quraysh
This was a promise by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
So what had happened amazingly, it was a blessing that that caravan had passed
After some time the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam went to one or two other places with a few of his men
And the Sahaba were not made aware of the fact that an army was being prepared
To get the same caravan on its way back
They were not told the details
And this was one of the beauties of Rasulullah salallahu alaihi wasallam's system and style which was divine
Given by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
He did not used to inform the people of the details because it would be very easy for people to find out
If I were to keep it within myself, I know no one knows
The minute I trust a person with it, perhaps many others would know
Well nowadays we have a sickness, you know when someone tells you something
When you really want the news to fly, tell them don't tell anyone
That little statement don't tell anyone, what it does is it makes us itch to tell someone
And when we tell someone we have a password, what's the password?
Don't tell anyone and then we tell them
And they go and tell the whole world knows and everyone is saying don't tell anyone
But may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala safeguard us
Look at how we have degenerated
The best thing if you don't want people to know, do not tell anyone
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness and may He grant us a lesson
So Rasulullah salallahu alaihi wasallam began to prepare
And as they left Al Madinah Al Munawarah
They were 313 men according to the majority of narrations
Some take it a little bit higher to 340 and some drop it to 311
We would stick to the narration that is most common, 313 men
The Rasulullah salallahu alaihi wasallam went with them
Now one might ask why is there discrepancy in the figure, it's very simple
Because when they initially went they were quite a few, they were perhaps up to 340
But when the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam got to a place
Known as Baytu Suqiyah just outside Madinah Al Munawarah
He stopped and the army camped there for a while
And as we mentioned yesterday he vetted the people one by one
And he sent people back to Madinah Al Munawarah who were not fit to join him
Because they were too young perhaps or because they had other duties in Madinah
Or because he wanted them to fulfill something in Madinah Al Munawarah
The example we cited was that of Uthman ibn Affan radiallahu anhu
He wanted to go out, the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam told him
Your wife is ill and sick, Ruqayya binti Rasul salallahu alaihi wasallam
She is not well, you go back and you will have a full reward of every one of us that goes out
And on top of that whatever the outcome is
You will be granted a full status of a person who took part in whatever we are going to take part in
And this is why if you open the Sahih of Imam Al-Bukhari
And you find the names which are written of the people of Badr
He makes mention of Uthman ibn Affan radiallahu anhu
Although physically he was not there
That is because he was told that you will be considered as one of them, subhanallah
So this we learn a great lesson from
Because we need to realize that sometimes there are certain things we have to take care of
At that time it was not compulsory for them to have come out
Because the prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam made a voluntary announcement
Whoever wants to come out with us, we have this something we would like to do inshallah
And so on, they knew that they went out on escapades, little platoons, little reconnaissance missions
As we made mention of to gather a little bit of intelligence and so on
So had they known that it was going to end in a full-fledged battle
There would have been no body or very few in Madinah Munawwarah
But Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala's plan
So these 313 they had left
When they left they got to a certain point as we said
And this was a place known as Bayt al-Suqya
Just outside Madinah Munawwarah
As they camped there the prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam sent two men
Go and find out how far these people are
Who? The caravan of Abu Sufyan returning from Ash-Sham
So the two who were Talhah ibn Ubaydi Allah radiallahu anhu
And Sa'id ibn Zaid radiallahu anhu
These two, they had gone out and they saw this caravan
They sent back a message to Muhammad salallahu alaihi wasallam
But Abu Sufyan had seen them and Quraysh was already very wary
Because they had had previous caravans where they had skirmishes with the Muslims
We made mention of them, this was not the first time
They were worried, they were concerned
And Abu Sufyan was extremely intelligent
A very very wise young man
Not as old as Abu Jahal and the others
He was wise, very intelligent
What he did is he understood that there are people spying here on us
And he realized that these people are from Madinah
How did he pick it up?
Look at the narrations, the intelligence of these people
Very sharp people
He looked at the droppings of the camel
And he studied the droppings of the camel
And he saw in it that the fodder that these camels have been fed with is only from Madinah
Cannot be from anywhere else, amazing
Because they had in it some of whatever was only in Madinah
The produce, the leaves of the palm and so on
Which you could not find anywhere else
Intelligent man
And he knew that now there is a problem
So what he did was also
He began
The first thing that he started to do was
He told his people, we are very few in number
The best bet is to change our path
We change the road
So instead of going close to Madinah
And as we are passing we will, you know, use the normal road
We rather go on the difficult road
And the further road which is closer to the coast
So by that time no one will be able to get to us
And we will have conned them
In the sense that they will come for us
They will miss us completely
In the meantime the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
Who was informed that look we have seen these people
And you can proceed
The Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam began to proceed
And very importantly
With the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
As we said only 313 people
After he had vetted whoever needed vetting and so on
And from amongst them they had only 2 horsemen
Only 2 horsemen
And this is something amazing
The 2 horsemen
Az-Zubair ibn Al-Awwam radiallahu anhu
And Al-Mikhdad ibn Al-Aswad radiallahu anhu
These were the 2 horsemen
Only 2
And they had 70 camels with them
Which were being made use of
They were sharing the camels
So one would ride, two would walk
Then from the two who walked
One would ride and the other two would walk
And they continued in that way
They shared it so much so
That Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
Himself also shared the camels
Not that he was the leader so he just sat on one
No, he sat on it after some time
He gave the chance to Ali radiallahu anhu
Who was with him and so on
One narration says Abu Lubaba was with them
And he gave the chance to Abu Lubaba and so on
As for Abu Lubaba Al-Ansari
When it came to a place known as Ar-Rawha
Rasulullah Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
Sent him back to Madina Munawwara
For what reason?
As follows
When they were leaving Madina Munawwara
The Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
Left Abdullah ibn Ummi Maktum
The blind companion radiallahu anhu
In charge of Salah
And in charge of Madina
So he was basically responsible for what went on
But as they got to Ar-Rawha
The Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
Sent back Abu Lubaba and said
You will be the Ameer in Madina
For as long as I am away
In this particular escapade
Or in this journey
So Abu Lubaba Al-Ansari radiallahu anhu
He had gone back
In fact this was Abu Lubaba ibn Abdul Munthir
That was the one who went back
And he was the one who was responsible
In Madina Munawwara during the absence of
Rasulullah Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
On that occasion
Now as they had gone
The Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
Divided the army into two major divisions
One was the Ansar
Headed by Ali radiallahu anhu
He was given a flag
The color of the flag was black
And the other was Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
On the other side
Who was the leader of the Ansar
So Muhajireen on one side led by Ali radiallahu anhu
The Ansar on the other side led by Sa'd ibn Mu'adh radiallahu anhu
The two of them had black flags
And as for the general flag
For all the Muslims together as an entire army
It was given to Mus'ab ibn Umayr radiallahu anhu
And it was a white flag
As you know we learned yesterday
That the flag for the general army was always white
Why the black ones was to distinguish between
The different battalions within the same army
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a deep understanding
Then on the right side of the army
The Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
Put a Zubair ibn Al-Awwam
Who was in the front with his horse
He had a horse
And on the left side he put Al-Mikhdad ibn Al-Aswad radiallahu anhu
Who also had a horse
So these two horsemen were placed on either side of the army
And with those who were on foot
The Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
Put Qais ibn Abi Sa'd Sa'd radiallahu anhu
And the army progressed slowly
But surely they had with them those who would provide food and so on
And they ate from amongst the camels that they had
They would slaughter and so on
This was the norm at the time
And they slowly progressed subhanallah
In the meantime you find Abu Sufyan
Very very intelligently sent a message to Quraish
What was the message?
You see this caravan
All the leaders of Quraish had had their loot in it
And they had sent Abu Sufyan with it going up to Ash-Sham
So he sent a message to say
Your people's containers are at stake
I'm using today's terminology
You see today you have a big container coming
And when someone says there's a problem with your container
Ask the business people how they cannot sleep
May Allah safeguard us
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
Imagine all the wealth of all these people
And what happens?
It is now at stake
From who?
From Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam and his companions
But the Muslims were not looters
They were not people who were oppressors
They were going to get back their rightful property
Which was usurped from them in Makkah
We need to get the slate
Sometimes on a global level the non-Muslims
Make it seem like the Muslims were greedy to fight
Or they really wanted all the loot and so on
It wasn't the case
These people were persecuted and killed for 14 years
Their wealth was taken from them
Everything usurped
That same wealth, the property and so on
Was used now in order for these people to become richer
That wealth belonged to us
Subhanallah
Nothing wrong in going to get it
Even if it means to fight in order to get it back
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a deeper understanding
So the people of Quraysh
They were very very upset
Very angry
Abu Jahal and the likes made an announcement
And the announcement was
Come on, let's go out and protect our property
Number one
Number two is
We can go out with so much power
That we will just destroy Muhammad and his companions all at once
Abu Sufyan already had had
Because now he sent his spies
And he found out figures
He found out where they were
He found out the movements and so on
He knew exactly what was going on
What type of weaponry these people had
Where they were, what were
Everything he had found out
He had figured it out
Because the people of Quraysh were warriors
They used to fight anyway
But as for Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He was not a warrior and a fighter
No
He was made to go out to defend
And that is when he became the best of the lot
Because from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Divine revelation
He knew exactly what to do
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
So the people of Quraysh came
How many of them?
When they left, it is reported
They were 1,300 strong men
When they left Makkah
The number dwindled
It came down
We'll explain how it came down
But when they left
They were strong men
From amongst them
They say 1,000 horses
And here we only had two horses
Subhanallah
And they were well equipped
Abu Jahl was so excited
He said we will go to Badr
And we will camp there
Because as it is
It's more like a holiday spot there
We're going to take young girls and women
We're going to take alcohol
We'll party there
We'll wait for these people
When they come
We will finish them up
And we will sort them out
They were going to have a party
Because to them it was a superpower
Against a force similar to the Goliath David
Scenario of many years ago
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Grant us a deeper understanding
Dawood a.s.
Allah says
How many armies that were smaller
Have overcome armies that were huge
By the will of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
So these people had gone
In a great number
When Abu Sufyan was safe
He sent another message to Quraysh
As they left
What was the message?
Now you people can stay
And you people can go back
Because we are now safe
And your property is safe
So it was good enough
For them to say
Okay, property is safe
Let's go back to Mecca
But no, they prepared so much
They had pride
They had this haughtiness
We want to wipe out these Muslims
And we must sort them out
And Allah wanted something to come to pass
As we will see
So now
Abu Jahl says
No, we are not going to go back
But a few of the people decided
No, we want to go back
There is no point now in fighting
So if we take a look
Banu Zahra, they had came back
They had returned
So the numbers became smaller
Of the disbelievers
And from the very beginning
Abu Lahab was one of them
Who could not go
What had happened?
All the leaders came out
Abu Jahl came out
Utba ibn Rabi'a
Shayb ibn Rabi'a
A lot of these top people
Umayyah ibn Khalaf
All of them came out
The leaders of Quraysh
Because they were so excited
We're going to wipe out the Muslims
And those who could not make it
They sent their family members
And kith and kin
To come out on their behalf
Such as Abu Lahab
He couldn't make it on his own
And Abu Lahab fell very sick
At some stage
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a lesson
He was the one who used to throw
Astaghfirullah
Dirt upon Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
He lost his health
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala safeguard us
Really
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
To grant us purity
And to make us not from amongst
Those who blaspheme
To make us not from amongst
Those who earn the wrath
Of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
We are fortunate
That knowledge is very easy nowadays
It's at our fingertips
It's not difficult to learn
As it was many many years ago
Because today we have access
Not only to the internet
But to people
If you want someone
To speak to them live
You don't need to travel
For 8 days and 16 days
You can pick up a telephone today
You can fly in 8 hours
And you can get to anyone on the globe
To find out
Still we are lazy
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Help us earn the knowledge of deen
And may He make us from those
Who understand and realize
Through the Sunnah of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
So Abu Lahab he didn't come
And there was a clan
That did not attend at all
Banu Adi
They just refused
They said look we are not interested
In fighting from the very beginning
So now
Banu Adi was behind in Mecca
Abu Lahab was behind in Mecca
And now Banu Zuhra
They decided to go back
After Abu Sufyan sent the second note
And the second letter
However
When Quraysh got close to Badr
They were insisting on war
We want to fight these people
Now it's no longer about the caravan
The caravan is gone
It's passed
It's safe
Now it's about these people
We want to fight them
Now Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Did not want to fight
When he came out of Mecca
Of Madinah Munawwara
He intended the caravan
He did not intend
A war
So what he did is
He started asking
The opinion of his companions
What do you think?
Should we fight these people?
And obviously there were two opinions
Because
Those who said we should not fight them
They were only concerned that
Look we are not heavily armed
We came out with just a few weapons
Each one of us has a sword
We have a limited number of bows and arrows
And at the same time
We came for a caravan
Which had in it
Just a few people
And now we are going to face
The super power of the time
And we are so small in number
So it's not like they wanted to run away
But they were putting forward a case to say
It's not going to be worth it fighting
However, subhanallah
Listen to what Al-Miqdad ibn al-Aswad
Radhiallahu anhu says
He was one of the men on the horse
When the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Said
Should we go and fight these people or not?
He says
He says O messenger sallallahu alayhi wasallam
We are not going to give you the answer
That Banu Israel gave the Prophet Moses
Musa alayhi sallatu wasallam
When they told him
Go you and your Rabb and go and fight
We are sitting and waiting here
We are going to say
We will come with you and we will fight
The decision is yours
You make a decision
We are with you
Subhanallah
So this was the difference
The companions of the Prophet
Musa alayhi sallatu wasallam
They told him
You go and fight
We are waiting here
We don't want to tackle these Jababirah
And these tyrants
You and your Lord
The two of you can go
I seek refuge with Allah
So Al-Miqdad ibn al-Aswad says
We will not say that
We are going to say
The decision is yours
We are with you
Go and we are right behind you
Subhanallah
Then the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Turns to the Ansar
Why did he turn to the Ansar?
It's important to seek the opinion
Of those who are warriors
Those who are going to fight
If we want to engage in a war
You need their opinion
Not like today
Man makes a decision
The people on the ground
Have no say whatsoever
Half of them are so innocent
They don't even know why
Like the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam says
There will come a time
When the killer doesn't know
Why he is killing
And the one who is murdered
Won't know why he was murdered
Go and ask the army
Is doing their rounds on the globe
Why are you doing this?
They say I don't know
We don't know
And ask the people who are killed
Why are you being killed?
They say we don't know
We don't know
That is a prophecy of
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
He said a time will come
When people won't even know
Why they are doing
What they are doing
But they will be spreading
Corruption across the earth
May Allah safeguard us
As for the Muslims
They sought the opinion
Of one another
Even Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Although the instruction was his
And Allah had already revealed to him
But in order for us all
To learn a lesson
As to the importance of seeking opinion
He asked the Muhajireen
And he asked the Ansar
As for the Ansar
It was because he had a treaty with them
To protect him in Medina
But he didn't have a treaty with them
That they would protect him
Else way outside of Medina Munawwara
It was important that he asked them the question
Look, we are now heading for Badr
Is it possible that you people
Would like to fight with us?
And Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
The head of Al-Aws
We mentioned his name so many times
The one who accepted Islam
At the hands of Mus'ab ibn Umayr
Radhiallahu anhu
Sa'd ibn Mu'adh says
Ya Rasulallah sallallahu alayhi wasallam
You came to us
We believed in you
We believe you are the messenger
We believe you are our leader
We have obeyed your instructions
We will continue obeying your instructions
You tell us what to do
Even if you take us
And instruct us to dive into the ocean
We will dive straight after you
Subhanallah
Tell us whatever you want
We are with you
So what happened?
That gave strength to the rest of them
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Speaks about this in the Quran
Speaks about how
It would have been good
If the Muslims had had the caravan
Which was the easier one
But Allah says
We wanted something to happen
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Speaks about this
Subhanallah
So beautifully
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Tells us how
Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Was favored
And Allah says
All this was in order
For Allah to make
To pass
That which was meant
To come to pass
Subhanallah
Allah says
The beginning of that verse
Arabic
When Allah had promised you
That you will definitely be victorious
Over one of the two armies
You had intended
You had hoped
That the easier one be yours
Which means those
Who were with the caravan
Small in number
You were hoping
That that would have been the one
That Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Had meant
When He promised you
One of the two
But Allah says
But Allah intended for you
To go for the big one
Because He wanted to cut off
The backs of the disbelievers
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Protect us
Amazing
So this was Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
And this is why
Allah says
Just as Allah removed you
From your house in Medina
To go out
Allah is the one
Who took them out
To go to the battle of Badr
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
And then you found
That some of the believers
Were not really willing to fight
When?
When they were asked
Do you now want to fight
Or go back?
As I told you
There were two opinions
They did not say
We are not willing to fight
Because they didn't want
To obey the instruction
If the instruction came
They would obey
But they were asked
For their opinion
And all they said is
We don't think it's a good idea
Because we are not
As well equipped as the others
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
They are arguing with you
About the truth
After it is made clear to them
As though
They are being driven
To their death
Whilst they are watching
Look at the words of the Quran
Nobody is driving anyone
To their death
But it's Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
They came after that
The instruction of Allah
To put them in the battle
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Said
The instruction of Allah
To proceed to badr
Everything was over
Allahu Akbar
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Grant us goodness
All of them proceeded
Unlike the disbelievers
When the letter came
Some of them went back
With the mu'mineen
When the instruction came
313 of them
They arrived
And they marched
With Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
So Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wasallam
When he got there
And as we made mention of
What happened
With Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
And Al-Muqdad ibn Al-Aswad
R.A.
Giving the backup
And making statements
That really empowered everyone
And made them feel
Very high in moral
Because obviously
When your leaders are saying
Let's go
Everyone else who is
Lower down feels very high
But if the leaders were slack
And saying no
We're not really so much for it
You find the little ones
They won't even want to take part
Not to say there were anyone
Who was actually little
But in comparison to the leaders
And the leadership
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Grant us goodness
Now the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
When he got to a certain point
The army camp
And when the army camp
He took Abu Bakr al-Siddiq
R.A.
And he said
Let's go and find out now
We need to know
The numbers of these people
What type of weapons they have
And so on
So what happened is
They hadn't even known
Exactly where Quraish was
They saw a man
Just the two of them
As they moved
They went into the desert
On their own
They saw an old
Arab Bedouin man
And they told him
Where are the Muslims?
Good question
Look at how the question is asked
This is actually now
A tactic
To get news
To get information
Because now this is a war situation
Where are the Muslims?
He says who are you?
So they said
You tell us
Where the Muslims are
Then we tell you who we are
So he says okay
No he didn't say
Who are you
He said
Where are you from?
That was the question
So they said
You tell us
What we want to know
Then we tell you
What you want to know
So he says
Okay the Muslims
They left
Medina on such and such a day
There were so many of them
And they headed to a certain place
They were seen in this place
On this day
And today as we speak
They should be in this place
And it was so accurate
Subhanallah
So accurate
Shocking
So then they said
Oh
Is that the case
Okay
What about the Makkans?
Where are they?
The people of Makkah
Quraish
He said as for Quraish
They got the news
And this is how they prepared
They went there
They did this
The army
They should be at this place
Right now
Which was not very far
At all
So then they said
He said right
Now where are you from?
So the Prophet
Sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Looks at him and says
We are from water
And they walked away
Quickly the two of them went away
Now
We are all from water
We were created from water
And dust
Which was mixed together
And it became clay
So
Because he said
Where are you from?
He says
We are from water
So Rasulullah
Sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Went away immediately
So that no further questions
Would be asked
And he says
Which water?
The water of Iraq
They didn't answer anything
They just carried on
Because if they waited
A lie would have been necessitated
And if someone lied
Because of war
It wasn't wrong
It's not wrong in the Sharia
If it's a war
Then subhanallah
You don't need to give
Your enemy the information
But they knew
That if we are going
To tell him anything
Besides this
There's going to be a problem
So subhanallah
They went away
And they found out
Rasulullah Sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Had one powerful habit
He never ever got people
Worried and excited
Not once
He knew the news
He knew how serious
Everything was
But he always
Calmed the people down
Subhanallah
Unlike today
We hear something minute
We blow it up so big
And we make like
The house is burnt down
Before we even
Subhanallah
Open our mouths
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Grant us a lesson
This is why
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
The hypocrites
Whenever news of fear
Or safety
Good or bad
Comes to them
They quickly broadcast it
The word
For your information
Refers to broadcasting
You see
It means
That which is
Broadcasted
Radio and television
Is included in that
Which is broadcasted
So here
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Speaking of the hypocrites
And their quality
Whenever there is
Some piece of
Information that is
Of importance
Whether it is
To do with security
Or whether it is
To do with goodness
Peace
Harm or difficulty
Or goodness
It is quickly broadcasted
Before
It is taken to those
With sound knowledge
Had they taken
That news to the messenger
Or to those
Who were in authority
Those with sound
Intellect above them
They would have known
How to deal with the news
So this is
The messenger
Salallahu alayhi wasallam
This
And he went back
To his army
And then
They started preparing
And as they were
Preparing
Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasallam
Speaking to them
Giving them information
Telling them
What they would like to do
We want to go to badr
And we will
Insha'Allah
Settle at a specific place
And so on
Insha'Allah
We will get to that
In a few moments
But in the meantime
The prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
Sent more people
To find out
A little bit more
Information
And from amongst them
He sent Ali
Ibn Abi Talib
Radhiallahu anhu
And al-Zubair
Ibn al-Awwam
Radhiallahu anhu
One narration says
With them was
Sa'd ibn Abi Waqas
Radhiallahu anhu
They rushed
In the evening
To what was known
As Ma'u Badr
The place where
The water was
In badr
Now in badr
There were a few places
Where there was water
There was water
Close to where
The Muslims were
And water
A little bit further away
So when Ali
Ibn Abi Talib
And his
Sa'd ibn Abi Waqas
And al-Zubair
Ibn al-Awwam
Radhiallahu anhu
Went to this water
They found two youngsters
Filling the containers
For Quraish
To take back water
So they
Got hold of these youngsters
And brought them back
To Rasulullah
Salallahu alayhi wasallam
Amazing
These two youngsters
Are filling water
They were asked questions
They were trying to evade
The prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
Was reading Salah
When he completed
He said look
We know
We want you to tell us
Where is Quraish
The two boys looked
Young little boys
And they said
Well
They're just here
On the other side
Of the valley
Which means
Very very close
And we are here
To collect their water
How many are they
So the young boys say
We don't know
How many they are
Now the prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
Even more intelligent
Than Abu Sufyan
Abu Sufyan had to
Check the droppings
Of the camel
The prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam says
How many camels
Do they slaughter a day
For food
So they said
One day nine
One day ten
The prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
Looks at his companions
And says
That means they are
Between nine hundred
And a thousand
Subhanallah
Look at the figure
Because one hundred people
Eat from one camel
That's the average
So if they have nine
One day
Ten the other day
Perhaps they are nine
Nine fifty to a thousand
Thousand men
Look at the intelligence
He understood immediately
Then he asked them
And who from amongst
Quraysh is there
They said
All the big boys
Meaning all the leaders
Of Quraysh are there
Abu Jahal is there
Umayyah bin Khalaf is there
Utbah bin Rabi'ah is there
Subhanallah
I would say
Wow
All the names are there
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Grant us goodness
Imagine
Now the prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
Looks at his companions
And he says
This is Quraysh
Allah has brought them to you
With their leaders
They have come all the way here
The leaders have come
These are the same people
Who harmed us
Who attacked us
These are the same people
Who murdered from amongst us
These are the ones
Who usurped our wealth
Now when we say
These type of things
It boils the blood
It makes people want to go
And get back
Whatever was there
Subhanallah
Imagine a man
Who has harassed you
For years on end
And one day
It's just you and him
And you can see
That you're much more muscular
Than he is
You look at him
He's trying to run away
What do you do?
You're so happy
That at least he's so close
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Grant us goodness
With that
We need to remember
Without the help of Allah
Subhanahu wa ta'ala
Nothing was going to happen
Because
313 on one hand
And almost 1000
Perhaps more than 1000
Strong on the other
And they were well equipped
The difficulty was
They were having a ball
Of a time in badr
Those mushriks
What were they doing?
That's what he said
He says, we'll enjoy
We'll take our women
They took women with
Lots of alcohol
Drinking, dancing, enjoying
Is that what war is all about?
If you take a look at
Shaytan
Shaytan gets hold of people
Exactly how he got hold
Of the people in the past
Wine and women
In the sense that
They want people
Dancing and dancing
And dancing
They want people
Dancing around them
They want to see
They want to commit adultery
They want to drink alcohol
And so on
May Allah safeguard us
Really
From that time
It resulted in their failure
And to this day
Anyone who has those habits
They can never, ever lead
A happy life
Whether they are Muslim
Or non-Muslim
If a person is into wine
And women
And so on
Their life is a mess
It will have to be a mess
And if it is not yet a mess
It's going to be a mess
So that is something that is a plan from the very beginning of Shaytan in order to lead us astray.
May Allah protect us, and may He protect our families, our brothers and sisters, and may He protect our children as well.
So this was Abu Jahl, and what he did was something shocking.
Drinking, and he was loud-mouthed, very loud, saying statements, very very bad statements.
Bad statements will come to one of them in a few moments, but in the meantime, the Prophet ﷺ,
when he realized how close these people were, he issued an instruction to his companions.
What was the instruction? Cut off all the bells from the necks of the camels.
All the bells were cut off. Why? Very simple.
If the bells are on the necks of the camels, like nowadays you find bells on the necks of some of the cattle so that they are not lost.
From a distance you can hear camels. People would be able to know, there's the camels, this is where it is.
They will know direction. In this way, the ropes are cut, no one knows which direction it is in,
no one knows how many there are because you can't hear the bells ringing and so on.
Number one. Number two is, he told his companions, we will proceed, we will progress.
He did not inform them exactly where, where they will proceed and progress.
We said this at the beginning and we're repeating it now, because this happened many times.
He only released at every level how much they needed to know. That's all.
So at a certain point, okay, we're going there. When they get there, we are now going there.
When they get there, we are now going there. Subhanallah.
So that news didn't fly and news didn't go to the others and to the enemy
and so that the enemy would not be able to have information and intelligence gathered against the Muslims.
And thereafter, the Muslims decided, Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam the following day decided that
let us all go and we will stop at the water of Badr, the closest water that we have.
The closest water, Badr. Let's stop there so that we can have water whilst the war is going on.
And so when they got there, subhanallah, there was a sahabi known as Al-Habab ibn Al-Mundhir,
radiallahu anhu. He looks at the messenger. This man was intelligent.
He had taken part in some wars in the past. He looks at Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
He says, Ya Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam, you have camped the army here.
This is the close water to us. There is another water further down.
Is it revelation from Allah, an instruction that we cannot go against that you have made us camp here with
or is it just an opinion that can be changed in the sense that could we have a say, could we suggest something?
So the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam says, no, it is not a must that we have to be here.
We have just camped here. So he says, in that case, I have an opinion.
What is your opinion? Oh, Habab, my opinion is let us go to the other water.
So we will have this water as well as the other water and Quraish will have no water.
So when they come in, they will have no water at all.
Another thing is the soil here is not fit for our horses in case it rains.
What will happen? The horses will actually slip.
If we go further up there, there is a little bit of sand.
If it rains or there is water and so on, we will be able to have the horses very steady on the ground.
So Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam immediately agreed with this opinion
and he took the entire army and told them, let's get there.
And so they proceeded to the next water.
And now they had control of all the water in Badr.
So there was no ways that Quraish would get water.
And then, subhanallah, on one hand, the eve of the battle,
the mushriks are busy dancing, they're busy enjoying, they're busy drinking
and they are certain that they're going to win because they know how much power they have.
They don't have a doubt.
Abu Jahl is convinced that tomorrow we're going to win, convinced.
And they don't have a doubt. So they're really enjoying drinking so much.
Now you and I know that when there is a person who has drunk so much
the following morning he gets up with half an eye this way, that way, probably looking at you with one eye and so on.
And he sees two, three people not realizing exactly which one is the real person
and which one is just the double because of the eye.
This happens.
I don't know, in my part of the world they call it babalas.
I don't know what they call it here.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us.
So a person comes and these people were drinking.
That same drink was one of the reasons of their downfall.
And it was a means that Allah had chosen for their downfall.
Subhanallah.
And in the meantime, the Muslims, they were concerned.
They were making dua.
They were engaged in prayer.
They were really at the mercy of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Sa'd ibn Mu'adh tells Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
Ya Rasulallah, let us build for you a headquarters here.
So they built at one place.
It is known as Al-Arish.
Up to today, if you go to Badr,
there is a masjid built on that location known as Masjid Al-Arish.
That is where the command center was.
They had just built a little structure.
Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam would sit inside there.
And when the war began, he came out obviously.
But this was just for the time that they had camped in Badr.
And they had camped for several days.
Even after the battle, they camped for another three days.
So that place Al-Arish was built in the meantime very quickly.
They get together, they built this place beautifully, masha'Allah.
And Sa'd ibn Mu'adh was standing out there with some of his men
making sure no one goes in.
Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
and the messenger sallallahu alayhi wa sallam were in this Arish,
this little command center.
And in the meantime,
the Muslims are given a gift by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Listen to what Allah says.
إِذْ يُغَشِّيكُمُ النُّعَاسَ أَمَنَةً مِنْهُ
وَيُنَزِّلُ عَلَيْكُمْ مِنَ السَّمَاءِ مَآأَ
لِيُطَهِّرَكُمْ بِهِ
وَيُذْهِبَ عَنْكُمْ رِجَزَ الشَّيْطَانِ
وَلِيَرْبِطَ عَلَى قُلُوبِكُمْ
وَيُثَبِّتَ بِهِ الْأَقْدَامِ
Allah says, remember the time
that the yawning overtook you.
They actually fell off to sleep.
Imagine people are waiting, the enemy is there.
Who would sleep?
People would be wide awake, waiting
to say the following morning we're going to fight
and here you have sleep, everybody slept.
The Muslims had a good sleep, mashaAllah.
Allah says, we blessed you with a good sleep
and above that we caused the rain to fall.
So much so that the following morning
the valley had water in it.
What happened?
That Sahabi al-Habab ibn al-Mundin, he was correct.
The soil, the sand was now good enough
for the horses to tread over
whereas it had been quicksand the previous day.
But now that it was all wet,
it was beautiful because the horses could move on it
and Quraysh were in a place where
they suffered in the night.
Their horses couldn't even move because of the water.
The opposite, subhanAllah.
And they didn't have water to drink
and on this side it rained, subhanAllah.
And this is Allah's gift.
And Allah says, we sent you the water
for it to be a cleansing for you
and for the whispers of the devil to go.
People became very very energetic
and they were looking forward to the next day
because of the rain.
Rain freshens you up, mashaAllah.
And at the same time Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says,
and in order for you to be steadfast,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
So this was a gift
that Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam was given.
Another thing,
Allah showed Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam a dream.
In his dream, Allah says,
إذ يريكهم الله في منامك قليلا
We showed their number to you in your dream as very little.
So in the dream Allah showed Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
the number of the mushriks very very little, very little.
Now one might say the dreams of the Prophets are all true.
So why is it that he saw them little when they were so big?
No.
Compared to the Iman that was on one side,
they were nil on the other side.
Allahu Akbar.
They were nothing.
So it's not the figures,
it is actually the strength,
the strength given by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala due to Iman.
So Allah showed him that they are very very little.
Allah says,
If we had showed you that they were so large in number,
perhaps they would have been a dispute,
perhaps you may not have wanted to fight them and so on.
But Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala saved you.
So this was a dream that Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
had that eve.
And then, subhanallah,
on the other hand,
the number of the mushriks very very little.
And then, subhanallah,
on the other hand,
one man also saw a dream.
His name was Juhaym ibn al-Salt.
He was from amongst the mushriks,
one of those people of Abu Jahl.
He had a dream.
That dream was also a sign from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
He dreamt that a man came to him on a horse
and with a little camel of his.
And he says,
Such and such a person is already killed.
Such a person is killed.
Such a person is murdered.
Who were the names?
Abu Jahl, Umayyah ibn Khalaf,
Utbah ibn Rabi'ah.
These people are already murdered.
So this man goes to Abu Jahl
and he tells him,
Hey, I saw a dream.
And in the dream,
I saw that this man comes and tells me,
You are murdered.
The other one is executed.
Umayyah ibn Khalaf is executed.
Utbah ibn Rabi'ah.
And he took the names.
Abu Jahl began to laugh.
Obviously half drunk.
The man doesn't know what he's saying.
And he starts laughing.
He says, Who do you think you are?
Tomorrow we will show you who's going to win.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us.
Wallahi, alcohol is something
we should stay very, very far from.
Very far.
It is totally prohibited.
It is known as one of the root causes
of most other ill.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala safeguard us.
So the following day, subhanallah,
the Prophet salallahu alayhi wa sallam
got the people ready.
And he started advising them.
He read for them verses.
He warned them.
He gave them lots of advice.
And he told them to be disciplined.
To be disciplined in war.
And to listen to the instructions
of the commander
who was Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wa sallam.
He said, We have been taught
to make Sufuf.
Sufuf.
Allah loves those who when they are on the battlefield
and they are fighting,
they are in rows.
Rows like the rows of Salah.
Subhanallah.
So there was a row.
The first row was made of those
who were the archers.
Those who would actually use their bows and arrows,
their arrows and spears to attack.
And he said,
We don't have that many spears.
So don't waste them.
And at the same time,
you wait until they come right to us.
When they are very close to us,
then you hit them with the spears.
And the others,
the next row was those with swords.
He said, As for you,
don't remove your swords
until they are right in your midst.
Then you take your swords out.
Subhanallah.
And they didn't have the question of horsemen
because there were only two.
And they were told,
instructed very carefully
by Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wa sallam.
So what had happened is,
as Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wa sallam
made this dua,
Allah responded his dua.
Nabi salallahu alayhi wa sallam says,
O Allah,
help us, assist us.
You promised us assistance.
We are asking you for help, O Allah.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says,
إذ يوحي ربك إلى الملائكة أني معكم
In fact,
there is a verse slightly before that
where Allah says,
إذ تستغيثون ربكم
فاستجاب لكم أني ممدكم بألف من الملائكة مردفين
Remember when you were seeking the help of Allah
and Allah responded you saying,
We are sending you one thousand angels to help you.
The following day,
or when the battle was about to commence in fact,
the verses came down.
In fact, Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala told
Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
We are sending you,
how would you like it if we sent you three thousand angels?
And then he says,
We are sending you five thousand angels
if you fear Allah and so on.
And wallahi,
if you look at Sahih al-Bukhari,
you open the book,
there is a baab,
baab meaning a chapter.
The chapter is named
the chapter of the participation of the angels in the battle of Badr
and ahadith,
there are few ahadith that are made mention of.
So the angels also took part in this battle of Badr.
Now at that time,
the battles used to always commence with a duel.
You know, people who would have a sword fight.
So three of the people of Quraysh came out.
When Quraysh had come in,
Quraysh walked to a specific spot.
The Muslims walked to a specific spot
and they were all in lines.
Quraysh was haphazard.
First time in the history,
they are witnessing people drawing lines,
you know, making lines
and people all lined up.
Quraysh was surprised.
Rasulullah ﷺ went with his spear
straightening the safs,
straight like the saf of salah.
The rows were made straight
and the Prophet ﷺ then
selected three people to go out
to face the three whom Quraysh had picked up.
Whom did they pick up?
They picked up Utbah ibn Rabi'ah,
Shaybah ibn Rabi'ah
and Al-Walid ibn Utbah.
Those three had come up.
Al-Walid was a youngster.
The other two were older people.
On this side, Hamza ibn Abdul Muttalib came out
and we have Ali ibn Abi Talib r.a. who came out
and Ubaydah ibn Al-Harith r.a. who came out.
And subhanallah,
it started off with a few words
and then these,
the armies, the two of them watch.
They wait for the duel to complete
and then they all start fighting.
So what happened as the duel commenced,
Hamza r.a. in no time
put an end to Shaybah ibn Rabi'ah.
And Ali r.a. in no time
executed Al-Walid.
And as for Ubaydah ibn Al-Harith,
Utbah ibn Rabi'ah gave him a difficult time
and struck him,
but he was struck as well.
And then Hamza and Ali r.a. came to his assistance
and this man was executed as well.
Quraysh was shocked.
They were shocked.
Their leaders were gone, some of them.
And as they were shocked,
you now find that the two armies began,
in fact Quraysh began to run towards the Muslims.
The Muslims were just waiting
exactly where they were.
When they got to a specific point,
they were instructed to remove their spears and arrows.
They removed them.
Then they were instructed to fire.
When they fired,
so many of Quraysh were already gone,
subhanallah, just by that.
And as they went,
the horsemen of Quraysh began to come.
They fired again.
A lot of the horses dropped.
And thereafter, subhanallah, the war began.
And the greatest loss of the kuffar of Quraysh.
It is shocking.
The leaders of Quraysh, one by one,
they were executed by the same people
whom they had troubled and harassed over time.
There are some beautiful incidents of how
some young boys took part in this war
and they had a very, very big impact and effect.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
Insha'Allah, tomorrow we will continue.
We leave you in that suspense.
By the will of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
tomorrow we will continue with the rest of the battle.
Until then, we say,
wa salallahu wa sallam wa baraka ala nabina Muhammad.
Subhanallah, bi hamdi.
Subhanaka Allahumma bi hamdik.
nashahadu alla ilaha illa anta
nastaghfiruka wa natubu ilayk.
Alhamdu lillahi rabbil alamin
Ar-Rahman al-Rahim
Maliki yawm al-deen
Iyyaka na'abub